well the Biden Administration is
planning a multi-million dollar transfer
of bombs to Israel that's according to
the Wall Street Journal the $320 million
package includes Precision guided
weapons and follows a $42 million
transfer of the same weapons back in
2020 well last week the House of
Representatives passed a plan providing
14.5 billion dollars in military aid for
Israel including $4 billion to replenish
its Iron Dome missile defense system us
is already receiving $3.8 billion a year
in military assistance that's under a
10-year plan that began back in
2016 and Washington's given Israel more
military assistance than any other
country since World War II providing Aid
worth more than $124
billion and all this as the US is
deploying a second carrier strike group
and other assets to the region including
a nuclear powerered Ohio class submarine
as a warning to is Israel's
adversaries okay let's bring in Glenn
car who is a former deputy National
Intelligence officer with America's
Central Intelligence Agency he's in
Boston and with us live a very warm
welcome to you now forgive me if I'm
stating the obvious but submarines like
the Ohio class that's now in the region
I gather off the coast of Iran are
designed to remain hidden so why are the
Americans so adant now that it be seen
and by
who well they're designed to be hidden
from hostile parties uh so that they
can't be harmed certainly that's the
case in this instance uh it's only the
second time in recent years at least
that the United States has announced the
deployment of a submarine to the Eastern
Mediterranean or to what we call in the
United States military terminology the
central command structure and it's been
announced publicly as a deterrent to say
here is another another big stick that
uh is potentially is there for potential
use and that message is sent directly to
tan uh saying do not uh expand this
crisis beyond the horrors going on in
Kum and does Iran one of the so-called
axes of resistance countries need to
believe that the threat is credible for
that deterrence to
work oh of course this is is always the
the uh fuzzy murky aspect of deterrence
is that the the potential opponent has
to believe that you the uh person
announcing the deployment will actually
use the the tools or the weapons that
are being sent but in this instance uh
the messages have been particularly
explicit repeated and direct from the
top
us leaders and the the deployment of
resources of military capabilities has
been uh pretty noticeable pretty strong
I was we're talking about US military uh
Weaponry of course being used in the
region we are hearing the sounds of
gunfire uh in Gaza uh I mean the region
of course is bristling with American
Weaponry at the moment on top of uh this
uh submarine you've got two strike
carrier groups the Ford and the
Eisenhower and the Eastern Med how
helpful is this gunboat diplomacy when
it comes to refusing
tensions well I think people will are
focusing understandably on goodness look
at all these weapons going what why is
that that's a very dangerous thing the
the perverse
reality however is that it is dissuasive
and so far it has been quite successful
the US has done a number of things or
not done a number of things there have
been 27 attacks since October 7 by
surrogates of Iran on on American uh
forces throughout the Middle East
there's only been to my knowledge one uh
response quite
limited however all of that uh lack of
action or restraint is combined with uh
Stronger deployment of of potential
forces to use and the explicit message
don't extend to Iran to not extend the
conflict now I have to say that tyan has
been pretty clear also that it does not
want to see the conflict expand into a a
regional at the least War so while they
continue to send messages to the United
States in particular about don't
interfere with our capabilities our
Iranian capabilities so both sides
actually have shown uh happily um that
they don't want this to expand while uh
sending messages that uh they will act
strongly if something happens they
crosses a red line which is always fuzzy
a red
line there seem to be a lot of fuzzy red
lines at the moment Glenn car former
deputy National Intelligence officer
with America CIA many thanks for joining
us pleas have